California is a magnet for artists; however, there is almost no state funding available to support public works of art. California should make greater efforts to support the arts.
Child care is expensive for most working parents. California should improve its availability of affordable, fully trained, reliable, and licensed child care.
Towns like Oakland do not have enough police officers to protect the large community. Thus, the residents of large cities are at risk of more violent crime. California should help large cities keep its residents safe by hiring more police officers.
California should repeal the death penalty. It should be used very rarely, if at all, and must not be barbaric.
California is one of the most ethnically and nationally diverse societies on earth. California should continue to promote diversity, social mobility, and economic opportunity for all Californians.
We need to do more to bring new businesses to California.
Current legislation can cause businesses to leave California. The law should foster commercial activity to retain businesses within the state.
California should provide more affordable job training for unemployed workers.
Local communities should be able to raise revenue for local concerns, such as the police department and schools, without being withheld by the almost impossible two-thirds, supermajority vote threshold.
The unfunded state employee pension liability is nearly $80 billion. Until properly funded, the large liability threatens state employee retirees and our credit rating. California should improve its management of pensions for state employees.
California should provide tax breaks to small businesses that employ prison parolees.
California should provide preschool access for all children.
As a state that has benefitted from cutting-edge innovation and creativity, California should recognize the need and value of arts education by investing more dollars in this sector of public education.
California's teacher tenure laws have been declared unconstitutional by the Los Angeles Superior Court. California school districts should be allowed to fire poorly performing teachers.
Studies have shown a strong, direct correlation between poor nutrition and poor school performance. California should increase its investment in nutrition programs to improve student achievement.
Using new technology and social media in the classroom can lead to better educational outcomes.
Not all high school students are college bound. California needs to invest in improving access to vocational training for high school students through classes, apprenticeships, or partnerships with community colleges.
To reduce carbon emissions, California should increase our use of nuclear power.
California has compromised many ecosystems by damming rivers, converting forests to farms and sending delta water to the deserts of the Central Valley. California is not doing enough to preserve nature and wildlife.
California should encourage the growth of alternative energy such as solar power.
Fracking may have caused the drought, contaminated groundwater, contributed to climate change, and could possibly cause earthquakes. These environmental consequences are all reasons to ban fracking.
California has implemented a cap-and-trade system that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by regulating the market and encouraging the use of clean energy.
There is a trade-off between economic development, affordable housing, and protection of the environment in urban planning. California should balance these aspects in urban planning.
California's water infrastructure is aging. California should increase its efforts to develop de-salinization and alternative water sources.
We must be aware of toxins in our water sources. California must be stricter on its allowance of toxins in the water sources.
Large campaign contributions can have negative impacts on political campaigns. California should limit campaign contributions.
Local government is often the first line of contact for residents. California should increase its provision of state services at the local level.
Tighter oversight of the sources and uses of political contributions would reduce access of politicians to the temptations of power. California should improve the transparency of political contributions.
Government needs to engage its citizens, measure program performance, and be accountable for reaching stated goals and objectives.
With over 6,000 people shot in California each year, of which nearly half die, creating stricter gun laws is vitally important to saving lives.
School shootings are an avoidable tragedy. California should develop programs and laws to keep children safe from school shootings.
Lack of access and affordability of mental health services has a detrimental effect not only on the people affected by mental illness but also on the economy and quality of life of others.
California obesity rates are expected to double to over 44% of the state's population by 2030. California should increase the availability of nutrition and physical education in K-12 education to stop obesity of young Californians.
The eventual rise of the number of seniors dependent on the government for medical and financial support will create debt for the state and negatively impact the quality of care of seniors. California should increase the availability of housing and services for seniors.
50,000 Californians die every year from smoking along with 5,000 non-smokers exposed to second-hand smoke. California should improve efforts to eliminate smoking in public areas.
It may be helpful to have state support for local municipalities to help people who are homeless or struggling with insecure housing.
We need an open border for Mexican nationals in honor of our history, and also for our economy.
Many rural areas in California have no, limited, or expensive access to Broadband Internet. The state should provide Internet to all areas of California.
It is now becoming more commonplace for governments to record large quantities of data. California should increase government transparency and publish the uses of the data collected.
Many California state online services are outdated. California should modernize government online services to increase access to state offices and agencies.
Improving workplace safety protections and collective bargaining rights is an important issue for many Californians.
Government involvement with leadership programs in underprivileged communities is important.
California is home to one of the largest populations of members of the US military. California should improve its plan to support veterans and military personnel.
Raising the California minimum wage is a necessary step to ensure Californian families have a decent standard of living and their children have access to education and opportunity.
As Detroit has demonstrated, our state may need to reconsider its position on pensions. Although no one should have their pre-existing promises voided, there is potential for future contracts to include a different set of benefits. California should reform its pension program to be sustainable.
Violence against women, including domestic violence and sexual assault, is an issue in California. California should support survivors and prosecute perpetrators of this type of violence.
California prisons and jails are overcrowded and over-represented by minorities and people with mental health needs. California should enact government programs for prevention and improve release programs.
Police brutality and corruption can be prevented with more oversight.
California should be taking greater measures to protect the privacy and personal data of its residents.
Proposition 13 limits the amount of property tax individuals and businesses must pay. California should repeal Prop 13 for businesses.
Term limits for state representatives. California's current limit for terms is 12 years from Prop 28, which passed in 2012. This should be increased.
Support for public libraries is important because they are the chief vehicles for public literacy after the completion of formal education.
Tax breaks should be given to companies and individuals that make environmental improvements.
We need to develop ways of travel that are efficient and affordable for all individuals with the lowest impact on the global environment. California should continue to develop public transportation.
More and more Californians are choosing to ride their bicycles to exercise and commute. This has also led to more cycling accidents/deaths. California can make roads safer for cyclists by adding bike lanes.
High speed rail will result in many great outcomes: the number of cars on the road will be reduced and transportation will be less congested. California should continue its implementation of the high speed rail.
Unequal speed limits for trucks and cars is unsafe for all drivers.
California should do more for unincorporated urban areas such as the areas in Los Angeles County that are not incorporated as the City of Los Angeles is. 
California should increase its efforts to rehabilitate the homeless and have them join the workforce.
Comprehension of initiatives is central to the link between voters and intended outcome of voting. California should use plain language on voter ballots.
Low voter registration rates and low rates of voting among registered voters undermine the democratic system we all are so proud of. California should do more to encourage voter turnout.
Large agribusiness firms purchase water supplied by public agencies, and resell this water on the open market for profits. We should remove all subsidies on commercial water use, and require private businesses to pay the full cost of delivering the water.
We are currently in a drought and water conservation in urban areas and agricultural industry is important.
Climate change will lead to extreme weather and rising sea levels. California should do more to stop climate change.
Being located in earthquake country, California will inevitably experience large, devastating seismic events in the future. California should increase the seismic safety of its buildings and do more to prepare its residents.
California should create a fund or take other measures to help mitigate threats related to sea level rise, earthquakes, and wildfires.
California is currently in a drought. California should create a better water conservation plan.
California should do more to alleviate effects of the drought.
Water is important to the environment, working families, agriculture, the economy, and recreation. California should do more to manage the drought.